2019 June 16 via email


Mr. Gerald Dingalingus, P.E.,
ABC Architects
100 1st Street
Little Rock, AR 72201

Re:         A PROJECT

Dear Mr. Dingus:

The above referenced plans are approved with the following comments and conditions:

1. Contact Public Works, Civil Engineering Private Development at 501-413-2897 for inspections of any work in the public right-of-way prior to placement of concrete or asphalt or for on-site clarification of requirements prior to commencing work. Failure to do so can result in removal of any improperly placed concrete or asphalt at the expense of the owner or contractor.

2. A grading permit is not required for the proposed site work. However, all construction work must include appropriate drainage and erosion control measures (i.e. hay bales, silt fencing, mulching etc.) to protect the municipal storm water drainage system and neighboring properties from sediment runoff. New development may be subject to inspections for compliance.

3. Any work involving one (1) or more acres of disturbed area requires a State of Arkansas NPDES permit. Contact the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality, NPDES branch at 501-682-0744 for applications and information about General Stormwater Discharge Construction Permit #ARR150000.

4. Hauling of fill material on or off project sites over municipal streets require approval prior to a grading permit being issued. Contact Public Works Traffic Engineering at 621 S. Broadway 501-379-1805 with any questions or for more information.

5. No stormwater detention is required.

6. The maximum cross slope at the sidewalk crossing is 1:50 over a 3-foot pathway. All driveway aprons within the public right-of-way shall be a minimum eight (8) inches thick of 3000 psi concrete and must conform to Ordinance #16,577 and #18,031 for grade, spacing, and other design provisions. Driveway aprons must be installed per City of Little Rock Standard Details PW-30 thru PW-35.

7. Provide sidewalk ramps for the disabled within the public right-of-way at street corners, driveways, and other locations as needed to eliminate steps in the sidewalk. The maximum slope of ramps is 1:12 with 1:10 side slopes. A four foot landing area must be installed at the top of the ramp. Slope cannot exceed 2% in either direction. Ramps must be constructed per Public Works Standard Details PW-48 thru PW-53. A one (1) year maintenance bond for newly installed improvements in the right-of-way must be provided to Public Works, Civil Engineering prior to approval of the final plat.

8. Provide five (5) foot wide sidewalks with ADAAG compliant ramps on the property line. Sidewalks are required to be installed per City of Little Rock Standard Details PW-41 thru PW-47. A one (1) year maintenance bond for newly installed improvements in the right-of-way must be provided to Public Works, Civil Engineering prior to approval of the final plat.

9. Boundary street improvements shall include, but not be limited to, reconstruction of one-half section of the abutting street if the existing street is not up to city standards. Where the existing street does not conform to the Master Street Plan, construction of one-half street improvements, including sidewalk at the property boundary, is required. Repair, replace, or extend existing damaged, missing, and noncompliant curb and gutter, sidewalk, access ramps or concrete driveway aprons within the public right-of-way adjacent to the site. Remove abandoned driveway cuts and replace with curb, gutter, and sidewalk. All work within the public right-of-way shall conform to City of Little Rock Standard Details and ADAAG.

10. Damage to public and private property due to hauling operations or operations of construction related equipment from a construction site shall be repaired by the responsible party prior to approval of the final plat.

11. Prepare a letter of pending development addressing streetlights as required by Little Rock Code Section 31-403 of the Little Rock Code. Contact Traffic Engineering at 501-379-1813 for more information regarding streetlight requirements.

12. Project Lane is classified on the Master Street Plan as a Residential street. Where right of way does not meet Master Street Plan requirements, dedication of right-of-way to 25 feet from centerline is required. Dedication must be provided to Public Works, Civil Engineering prior to final approval.

13. Where right of way has not been previously provided, a twenty (20) foot radial dedication of right-of-way or dedication of right-of-way sufficient for installation of required improvements is required at intersections. Dedication must be provided to Public Works, Civil Engineering prior to approval of the final plat.

14. Plans and specifications for all work in the right-of-way must be prepared by a professional engineer, registered in the State of Arkansas, and two (2) copies submitted for approval prior to construction.

15. Protect any trees or group of trees that are not necessary to remove for the proposed construction with orange fencing at the critical root zone. Unnecessary clearing and damaging of trees or root zones is prohibited and punishable by fine.

16. Provide as-built plans and data entry template of newly installed or modified public and private stormwater drainage system prior to issuance of the certificate of occupancy. The as-built plans should contain information as found on the City of Little Rock website at https://www.littlerock.gov/city-administration/city-departments/public-works/. Provide the as-built plans and data entry template to Public Works, Civil Engineering Private Development by email to CEPermits@littlerock.gov . If you have any questions or desire additional information, please do not hesitate to contact Public Works, Civil Engineering Private Development at 501-371-4817 or at 501-918-5348 or CEPermits@littlerock.gov.

If you have any questions or desire additional information, please contact me by phone at 501-918-5348 or by email at skreimeyer@littlerock.gov

Sincerely,



Samuel Kreimeyer
Civil Engineer I
City of Little Rock Public Works
skreimeyer@littlerock.gov
(501) 918-5348
